1. In our implementation, Alice and Bob increment their Diffie-Hellman ratchets every time they
exchange messages. Could the protocol be modified to have them increment the DH ratchets
once every ten messages without compromising confidentiality against an eavesdropper (i.e.,
semantic security)?

No. If you don’t ratchet every time, then if an attacker gets a key during a ratchet segment, they 
can decrypt all messages sent in that segment.

2. What if they never update their DH keys at all? Please explain the security consequences of
this change with regards to Forward Secrecy and Break-in Recovery.

If they never update their DH keys at all, there is no break-in recovery. Once the attacker gets the keys,
 they can decrypt all past and future messages, so there is no forward secrecy because every message is compromised 
 once the key is compromised.

3. Consider the following conversation between Alice and Bob, protected via the Double Ratchet
Algorithm according to the spec:
A: Hey Bob , can you send me the l o c k e r combo?
A: I need t o g e t my l a p t o p
B: Sure , i t ’ s 1 2 3 4!
A: Great , thanks ! I used i t and d el e t e d the p r e vi o u s message .
B: Did i t work?


What is the length of the longest sending chain used by Alice? By Bob? Please explain.
The longest sending chain used by Alice is the first two messages because it ratchets up by two steps.
The longest sending chain used by Bob is one step.
That’s because Bob sends one message and then receives the next message, so he does not continue sending on the same chain.

4. Unfortunately, in the situation above, Mallory has been monitoring their communications
and finally managed to compromise Alice’s phone and steal all her keys just before she sent
her third message. Mallory will be unable to determine the locker combination. State and
describe the relevant security property and justify why double ratchet provides this property.

The relevant security property is forward secrecy. Even after Mallory compromises Alice’s device,
she cannot decrypt earlier messages because the Double Ratchet deletes old message keys and advances
the chain key forward. Once ratcheted, past keys cannot be derived again, so previous messages remain confidential.

5. The method of government surveillance is deeply flawed. Why might it not be as effective as
intended? What are the major risks involved with this method?
